NVIDIA (15 min): the bare driver, then the old Control Panel

Good to know in 2026: since driver 610.47 (May 2026) the classic Control Panel
is no longer bundled with the driver. It installs from the Store (step 2), and disappears with every
clean installation: you reinstall it afterward.

1) NVCleanstall (button: winget installs the latest version)
   - "Manual", latest Game Ready driver for your card.
   - Components: Display Driver, and PhysX if you play games that use it. Nothing else.
     No NVIDIA App, no GeForce Experience, no USB-C, no Stereo 3D.
     NVIDIA HD Audio: keep it only if your sound goes out through the screen's HDMI / DisplayPort cable.
   - "Installation Tweaks" page, check as in the screenshot (button "Screenshot: NVCleanstall")
     EXCEPT the MPO line (see below). What it does:
     . Perform a Clean Installation: starts fresh.
     . Disable Ansel: capture overlay, useless.
     . Disable Driver Telemetry.
     . Enable Message Signaled Interrupts, High priority: the card talks to the CPU over MSI
       instead of the old shared interrupt line. Less latency between frame ready and frame displayed.
     . Disable HDCP: the cable's anti-copy encryption. Required by Netflix 4K and Blu-ray, nothing else.
       Active, it causes micro-cuts when the link renegotiates (alt-tab, waking from sleep).
       You lose: Netflix / Disney+ in 4K in the browser (1080p still works).
     . Rebuild digital signature + "Use method compatible with Easy-Anti-Cheat" + "Automatically accept":
       NVCleanstall changed the driver (HDCP, MSI), the NVIDIA signature no longer matches, Windows would refuse it.
       It re-signs it. The EAC method keeps the driver file intact, only the installer changes,
       so the anti-cheat sees an official NVIDIA driver. Validated by the pack's maintainer on the
       common anti-cheats. If a game refuses to launch afterward: reinstall the driver without those two boxes.
     . Disable Multiplane Overlay (MPO): UNCHECKED by default now. MPO is what lets the
       windowed game be presented with no copy ("optimizations for windowed games" depend on it).
       Check it only if you get black screens or flickering with multiple monitors, it is the
       official NVIDIA fix (OverlayTestMode=5 key). A major Windows update can overwrite it,
       if the bug comes back, run NVCleanstall again.
   - Install. The screen flickers and red messages flash by, that is normal, do not touch anything.
   Next time, NVCleanstall offers "previous settings", no need to check everything again.

2) NVIDIA Control Panel (the old one), button above. What it runs:
   winget install --id 9NF8H0H7WMLT --source msstore
   It needs the NVIDIA Display Container service (NvContainer): never disable it.

   Settings (button "Screenshot: NVIDIA Control Panel"), Manage 3D settings > Global settings:
   - Low Latency Mode: On. The driver keeps a single frame of lead. "Ultra" forces zero
     frames of lead and costs stutter when the CPU is at its limit: it is the setting from before
     Reflex. If a game offers Reflex, Reflex takes over, which is normal.
   - Power management mode: Prefer maximum performance. On recent drivers
     (616.xx) the setting does not always apply: check at idle with "nvidia-smi -q -d CLOCK"
     in a terminal, if the clocks drop back down at idle it is being ignored, and that is fine.
   - Shader cache size: Unlimited. The default (4 GB) fills up, an evicted shader recompiles
     mid-game: a frame time spike.
   - Texture filtering, quality: High performance.
   - Threaded optimization: On.
   - Vertical sync and G-Sync, two cases:
     . G-Sync / compatible screen: G-Sync enabled in "Set up G-SYNC", V-Sync "On" HERE
       in the Panel, V-Sync OFF in every game, and an FPS cap 3 to 4 under the screen's refresh rate
       (RivaTuner, Hard tutorial, or Reflex which does it on its own). This is the combination documented by
       Blur Busters: zero tearing, minimal latency. The "application-controlled" setting from the old tutorial
       let the game put its own classic V-Sync back on top of G-Sync.
     . Without G-Sync: V-Sync Off, RivaTuner cap alone, Reflex if the game has it.
     Game in windowed mode or on a hybrid laptop (Optimus): the Panel's V-Sync does not always
     apply, set it in the game instead.
   - OpenGL rendering GPU: your card, not "auto".
   - Smooth Motion (driver-side frame generation): never globally. Per game, single player only,
     never in competitive play (adds a frame of latency).
   Configure Surround, PhysX: PhysX on your NVIDIA card.
   Adjust desktop size and position: second monitor set to "No scaling".
   Change resolution: output dynamic range "Full", RGB format 4:4:4. The driver sometimes
   picks "Limited" on a TV or an HDMI monitor: blacks turn gray.

   Windows Settings > System > Display > Graphics:
   - "Optimizations for windowed games" on. Windows presents windowed frames like
     full screen ones, latency drops. Turn it back off if a game flickers.
   - Hardware-accelerated GPU scheduling (HAGS): keep it on. DLSS Frame Generation and
     Smooth Motion require it. Turning it off gains nothing on a recent card.
   - Auto HDR: off in competitive play, it adds processing per frame. On for single player games if the screen
     is genuinely HDR (600 nits and above).

3) MSI Afterburner and RivaTuner (button)
   Not for overclocking. For the fan curve and the RivaTuner overlay (FPS, frame time,
   temperatures). This is your tool to SEE that a tweak changes something instead of just believing it.
   Only one overlay at a time: RivaTuner OR Steam OR Discord OR the Game Bar. Two overlays
   stacked means one more hook per frame.

If you installed the NVIDIA App anyway (or a game forced it on you):
   Settings > Features: overlay OFF, Instant Replay OFF, Freestyle OFF. Games: "auto-optimize"
   OFF (it rewrites your settings). The rest of the tutorial applies the same way, the classic Panel
   and the App write to the same profile.
